It’s—it’s at Paul Perkins’s, exclaimed the fat boy, who had just come racing up; the wagon house—poof—it——

He stopped, all out of breath, and gasped like a newly-landed fish.

Out with the engine, boys, and race her down to Paul Perkins’s place! ordered Rob, not waiting to hear the rest.

With a shout the Boy Scouts swept into the engine house, and soon were tailing onto the long ropes by which the engine was dragged.

Forward! Double quick! came the next order.

Here! Here! shouted Boffy.

We’re going to the fire. Out of the way, Boffy! yelled the boys.

It’s not for hire! Bring it back! shouted the hard-of-hearing janitor.

197
Forward! roared Rob and Dale Harding in a breath.

Instantly the wheels began to revolve, and the ponderous machine came trundling out of the shed, and an instant later was being raced down the street, drawn by strong, young arms. Cheering like soldiers, the Boy Scouts dashed along. Old Boffy sprang back as the big machine crashed past him.

Come back! Come back! he yelled, as it vanished in the distance.

As Tubby had reported, it was the wagon house which was on fire. As the Boy Scouts came racing up with the engine, yellow flames were licking hungrily at its eastern end. A red glow spread all about, and the air was filled with the sharp, acrid smell of blazing wood.

Here you, and you, and you, ordered Rob, singling out three lads, take that hose down to the brook. The rest of you tail on to the hand-brakes.

198
In an instant the lads ordered to carry the hose to the creek were off, and it was not more than five minutes before the pumps began to suck. Presently, from the clanking apparatus, there began to pour a feeble stream. It strengthened as the engine got limbered up and soon quite a force of water was spurting upon the flames. They hissed and set up clouds of steam as the cold water struck them.

Hooray! shouted the boys at the brakes, but their leaders quickly silenced them.

Save your wind to work the pumps, ordered Dale Harding.

The machine! The machine! cried a voice, and Paul Perkins, pale and blackened with soot and flying embers, came dashing in among them. The lad’s hands were cut and bleeding.

I tried to drag it out by myself, but I couldn’t, he explained to Rob.

Great Scott, I forgot all about that, exclaimed Rob. Come on, fellows, let’s get Paul’s machine out of there. I guess we can save it yet.

199
It looked doubtful, however, if this could be accomplished. The flames now were leaping savagely up, but as yet they were confined to one end of the building. The wind, though, was driving them angrily forward, devouring the old dried timbers with the greed of a ferocious monster.

Open those doors! shouted Rob, and the next instant the big wooden bar had fallen from the portals as Paul unlocked the stout padlock holding them. As they swung open, the boys could see the machine standing in the centre of the place, illumined with a red glare. The heat that drove out was as intense as if they had opened the doors of a bake oven, but they didn’t flinch. Led by Rob and Dale Harding, they plunged into the fiery place. The heat seemed as if it would split their skins and singe their hair, but they paid little attention to it in the excitement of the moment.

Lay hold of those runners, boys, cried Dale, we’ll drag her out that way.

Good scheme, panted Rob, bending over and seizing hold. But the machine was heavy and refused to budge.

We need a rope, suggested Merritt.

200
No time to get it, panted Rob; come on, try again.

They strained till their muscles cracked, and this time the bulky contrivance slipped forward a little. Working with might and main, they had almost succeeded in getting it to a place of safety when there was a sudden shout from Paul.

The gasolene. That tank’s full of it.

Great Scott, it will blow up! cried Dale Harding.

As he spoke a cloud of sparks and hissing embers flew about them, driven from the burning end of the barn by a puff of wind.

Don’t quit! urged Rob, as they hesitated; no Boy Scout ever quits. We’ve tackled this job; let’s see it through.

His words put heart into the somewhat scared boys, and once more they bent their efforts to dragging out the machine. This time they managed to run it fairly beyond the danger line, and it was as well that they did so at that moment, for the feeble stream thrown by the hand-engine had had little effect on the flames, and by now one entire end of the wagon house had been burned away.

201
By this time, also, a big crowd had gathered, and as Rob and his companions, scorched and singed, stood triumphantly by the side of the machine they had rescued, they could hear angry shouts and the sounds of an argument coming from the direction of the engine. Elbowing their way through the throng, many members of which sought to detain and congratulate them, the lads found that the regular firemen had arrived and were attempting to wrest the hand-brakes from the Boy Scouts.

The boys were, somewhat naturally, protesting. Just as Rob and his friends came up, one big, hulking fellow laid hands on little Joe Digby and was about to hurl him backward out of the crowd.

You young monkey! he exclaimed; you kids had no business to steal our engine!